Hadoop is an open source framework from Apache and is used to store process and analyze data which are very huge in volume. 
Hadoop is writte in Java. It is used for offline processing. It is being used by Facebook, Yahoo, Google, Twitter, Linkedin and 
many more

Modules of Hadoop
1. HDFS - Hadoop distributed File system
2. Yarn - Yet Another Resource Negotiator
3. Map Reduce
4. Hadoop Common - Java Libraries.

### Features of Hadoop

1. Open Source : - Java based programming framework. Open source which means anyone can change the source code
2. Fault Tolerance : - 

Hadoop control faults by the process of replica creation. When client stores a file in HDFS, Hadoop framework divide the file 
into blocks. Then client distributes data blocks across different machines present in HDFS cluster.

And, then create the replica of each block is on other machines present in the cluster. HDFS, by default, creates 3 copies of a 
block on other machines present in the cluster.

If any machine in the cluster goes down or fails due to unfavorable conditions. Then also, the user can easily access that data 
from other machines.

1. Distributed Processing : - Hadoop stores huge amount of data in a distributed manner in HDFS. Process the data in parallel on a 
	cluster of nodes.
2. Scalability : - Hadoop is an open-source platform. This makes it extremely scalable platform. So, new nodes can be easily 
	added without any downtime. Hadoop provides horizontal scalability so new node added on the fly model to the system.
3. Reliability : - Data is reliably stored on the cluster of machines despite machine failure due to replication of data. 
	So, if any of the nodes fails, then also we can store data reliably.
4. Availability : - Due to multiple copies of data, data is highly available and accessible despite hardware failure. 
	So, any machine goes down data can be retrieved from the other path. Learn Hadoop High Availability feature in detail.
5. Flexibility : - Hadoop is very flexible in terms of ability to deal with all kinds of data. It deals with structured, 
	semi-structured or unstructured.
6. Economic : - Hadoop is not very expensive as it runs on the cluster of commodity hardware. As we are using low-cost 
	commodity hardware, we don’t need to spend a huge amount of money for scaling out your Hadoop cluster.
7. Easy to use : - No need of client to deal with distributed computing, the framework takes care of all the things. 
	So it is easy to use.